the UN agency helping refugees in Gaza
says it will be forced to Halt its
operations there today unless more fuel
is delivered it says its supplies will
run out later today a fourth Convoy of
28 trucks arrived in Gaza early
Wednesday after crossing the border from
Egypt but Israel's military is refusing
to allow fuel into Gaza it's accusing
the militant group Hamas which runs the
territory of hoarding supplies the fuel
shortage is hindering emergency services
that are already stretched to the
Limit staff in this Hospital in Gaza
City are working around the clock to
help those hit by the ongoing air
strikes rushing to help people severely
injured and also in a Race Against Time
before critical supplies run
out the water pressure is so low it they
are unable to uh operate the a central
sterilization machine that we use to
sterilize our surgical equipment and the
electricity keeps cutting out and we're
completely dependent on the fuel which I
understand is no longer coming in
doctors are under pressure to conserve
whatever little water and fuel supplies
they have for the electric generators
that many hospitals are now relying
on Aid is now beginning to trickle into
Gaza but Israel says they still have
reason to block the transport of fuel
supplies we are aware that Hummers needs
fuel they need it badly for their
military infrastructure after they stole
all the fuel from unra we'll discuss the
issue of the fuel with the world and if
the hospitals are in Peril Hamas are the
first to ask that hummas resupply the
fuel to the hospitals and to the poor
residents the world must demand this
from
the UN says that they may have to Halt
their aid operations if the situation is
not resolved
quickly fuel is extremely urgent because
without fuel the trucks themselves
cannot uh move without fuel the
generators cannot produce electricity
for hospitals for bakeries and for the
water desalination plants the White
House has said it is working with with
its Partners in the Middle East to push
for fuel to be allowed into
Gaza for the citizens of Gaza time is
running
out Ahmed bam is from the Norwegian
Refugee Council that's an independent
humanitarian organization that's
operating in Gaza he gave me the latest
information about the situation there
actually I just listened to a message
from my colleague in Gaza who was
telling me um about the situation there
and how amilies don't have time to
grieve the people they lost yesterday
because they are losing more people
today more relatives more
parents um my colleague um probably that
you know he has a partial answer to to
your report on on fuel had to look for
one liter of petrol um for four hours
before he could find some in his
friend's car that he siphoned out to use
for for a water tank so that children
can can drink or wash um the situation I
gave you an update last night it's got
much worse since last night 700 people
have been killed including 300 children
the Mayhem has to stop the Carnage has
to stop and uh people are being
collectively punished an entire
population here is suffering from an
unprecedented humanitarian crisis what
what can your organization actually do
to help the people in Gaza in in the
current
circumstances very little I mean I I
know a lot is expected from Aid agencies
such as ours the Norwegian Refugee
council is on the ground we have 54
people on the ground we have provided
some cash assistance for people so they
can go to the to the supermarket and get
whatever they can get but we can't do
much uh much more without without the
you know the the crossing opening
sustainably uh sufficiently I mean we're
having a handful of trucks a dozen or
two dozen trucks every day this is
nowhere near enough for Aid agencies to
operate un is saying that they might
shut down their operations because
they're running out of fuel um AG
workers are still getting killed our
staff on the ground have been displaced
they have suffered loss and damage to um
their homes um so yeah I mean a Aid
agencies need that support enable to to
be able to bring Aid in and give it to
the people who are in
need
we know that you know parts of Gaza have
literally been flattened critical
infrastructure has been destroyed of
course Israel is saying it is doing this
to destroy Hamas but the effects on the
people as things stand do you see these
all of these internally displaced
Palestinians ever being able to return
to their neighborhoods or or or will
they need to make a home
elsewhere this is this is a question
that will will take a lot of personal um
calculations I mean of course what
happened a couple of weeks ago when
Israel ordered the the you know the
relocation of people we want on that day
that this would be a grave uh breach of
international law which prevents
prohibits the forcible relocation of
people now they have relocated and just
to say they are being bombed where they
are being relocated
again my colleague told me how homes in
southern Gaza were being you know you
know homes that are Sheltering dozens of
families are being struck and hit
constantly um over the night um there is
no safe space in in Gaza and there's no
way we can portray any spot in Gaza or
say tell people that you know this is
going to be um safe from bombings people
have to have the agency to make their
choices have to be supported to rebuild
have to be supported to to recover so no
we're not for the forcible relocation of
people we are with people um you know
giv a safe shelter given a home uh
wherever they choose to be we are right
in the center of this right in the
middle of this crisis right now and as
you're saying it is getting worse by the
day but looking ahead do you see any
chance that this you know this massive
escalation of a long running conflict
could produce any Solutions in the long
term I mean just the you know the the
question itself tells me that the
International Community has suddenly
become helpless in finding a a a
peaceful resolution to this this is a
failure that we haven't seen in you know
um in other places um it's almost
inevitable it feels from the
International Community that yes
civilians will be killed and and this
should not be accepted this should
should be
unacceptable um and I think one thing
that um International Powers those who
have who can exercise pressure on Israel
can do at the moment is to call for an
instant humanitarian pause there can
never be a solution a bloody solution to
any conflict let alone um you know a a
punishment of an entire population in
order to get uh military uh military
outcomes so no they there can't be a
solution with violence violence has to
stop has to end now and lives have to be
spared I'll end on a note that you know
my my colleague again tells us that
there is no person in Gaza who's not
traumatized by what is happening and
there is a chance they will take years
to recover from this ahed Bam from the
Norwegian Refugee Council thank you so
much for your time let's talk to Michael
fakri who's the UN special Porter on the
right to food welcome to DW uh we're now
on the third day of a deliveries to Gaza
deliveries to a war zone which are now a
fraction of what they were were before
the war broke out how do you decide
where those supplies
go so I'm not in a position really to
make that decision I'm an independent
expert with the United Nations But
ultimately what's important is that
civilians are not receiving essential
food water fuel and medical supplies so
there's a there's a full Siege against
all civilians and Palestinians so what
we need is the influx of basic
necessities as soon as possible to all
civilians in Gaza and so how will the
work of the UN and other Aid agencies be
affected by the Israeli decision uh to
stop granting visas to un
Representatives what's going to happen
is this uh this disaster is going to get
worse on Thursday uh UN Human Rights
experts among uh myself included raised
the alarm we're very worried about the
risk of genocide that's the degree of
the humanitarian uh concern here what's
happening is people are on the brink of
starvation so if un uh workers if the
United Nations is not able to get in if
United Nations officers are denied visas
this is this is a Lifeline for people uh
in
Gaza I just want to be clear that the
but we all we're all uh understanding
you clearly you say that Gaza is on the
brink of genocide genocide defined how
committed by whom against
whom yes so of course genocide has a
very specific legal meaning first of all
there's the physical aspect what's being
hap what's happening is Israel um is
responding to the illegal attacks by
Hamas so Hamas illegally uh has targeted
civilians but the response by Israel has
been to illegally uh Target homes
churches hospitals and to call for a
Complete Siege of Palestine so there's
also the intent what we hear from
political leaders in public from Israel
is the intent to lay full Siege and to
punish all civilians um and there's also
been from the Minister of Defense from
Israel describing Palestinians as human
animals so there's degrading language so
there's both evidence of escalating
physical damage of and and mass uh
killing of civilians and and the
blocking of the basic necessities of
life of using starvation and food as a
weapon of War what makes it specifically
the issue of genocide and we're worried
that Israel is uh at the risk of of
causing genocide against the
Palestinians in Gaza is also the intent
the the language that's coming out of
Israel and I should add from its allies
so third parties have an obligation to
prevent genocide as well we've raised
the alarm we the alarm at the general
assembly and the Human Rights Council so
you said that Israel you've accused
Israel of illegally targeting homes
churches and hospitals they would say
that they are targeting Hamas who are
using civilians as human
Shields I let me Begin by saying there
is no exception to genocide there's no
excuse there's no legal exception and
there's no moral exception I understand
that Hamas has attacked Israel and has
targeted civilians this is wrong and
this contravenes International
humanitarian law and international human
rights law however the response must be
proportional and there's no excuse to
this degree of targeting civilians as
we're witnessing in Gaza and and again
just because you you you keep saying
that they are targeting civilians
because I know that they will say and I
will be speaking uh to a representative
of the IDF later he will say something
along the lines of we are targeting
Hamas targets who who place themselves
uh under or near civilians so the and
they will they will describe the the
loss of of Civilian lives as problematic
and unfortunate but they will say that
they do not Target
civilians thank you for clarifying the
question what's what's also happening is
a Siege there's the blocking of of food
water and fuel maybe they'll say that
fuel is I heard the report previously
let's focus on food and water my mandate
is on the right to food Security Council
resolution 2417 is very clear you cannot
use uh the starvation as a weapon in
armed conflict nor can you deny uh the
access to humanitarian Aid in a conflict
these are clearly clearly illegal I'm
not sure how water and food that are the
basic necessities of life for thousands
and thousands uh over 2 point over 2
million civilians over a million are
children I'm not sure how uh the
weaponization of food and the denial of
humanitarian relief has anything to do
with uh responding to Hamas that's very
clear thank you so much for that Michael
fakri our un special raor on the rights
to
food thank
you